

Managing remotely is different than managing in person. I go back-and-forth about whether I could classify it as more difficult or simply different. There are definitely trade-offs, but you can still be an excellent manager remotely. In this way, being a remote manager is no different than being in-person. You want to support these individuals, you want them to be learning and growing, and you want to manage the engineering aspect of products and problems effectively.

There are a few things that stand out as very particular benefits of being a remote manager. First, within the comfort of my home, I can have notes, papers, and whiteboards with partial thoughts or plans written out that I don't need to hide away until they are ready for outside input. I can be mid-thought process on a number of items and not be concerned about folks seeing partial information. Second, I can schedule 1:1s easily, without having to find a place to conduct them, and I can more easily process feelings about any meetings in private. Whether i'm having a frustrating day or want to celebrate, I don't need to worry about colleagues and coworkers seeing my body language and reactions in between meetings or while reading slack messages. Next, I can get to know other individuals better... where are they working from? Do they move around their house? Cameos or noises from children or dogs give me opportunities to ask questions and know more about the folks I work with. And finally, I can type notes. If I'm in person, I try to have my computer closed during meetings and take paper notes. This is great for focus but also less searchable, less accessible, etc. In person, I might have 5 different notebooks, one for each person reporting to me and then potentially an additional notebook for planning or peer meetings. That's... a lot. It's much easier to keep this all organized when I can rely on digital resources.

At the same time, some of the things that I love about managing remotely, also make it more difficult to manage remotely. While I _love_ that I can process emotions and reactions privately, so can every one else. That means that when I have a difficult 1:1 with someone who reports to me, I can't tell by their reactions or body language later in the day if they need me to continue giving them space or if it'd be helpful to check in. And as a result, it's also more awkward to send a message later in the day. If someone needs space and I send a message to check in, it could make the situation and their process for thinking about the feedback worse. Next, it's tough to know if someone if heads down or not when I as a manager ping them. I try to make it clear to folks that when I message them, they do not need to answer me immediately, but I also know that I am "the boss" and there is a power dynamic there so it's less likely that someone will ignore it when I send a message, even if they're in heads-down mode, and especially at the start of working with me. Lastly, there are so many meetings. As a manager, you have a lot of meetings regardless but video meetings are particularly grueling (as many of us who used to meet in person have been learning right now). In video meetings, it's harder to move around or change rooms, it's harder to do a walking meeting, and if you're in back-to-back meetings for a few hours, you're not even switching your location.

Some general tips before we get in to more specific sections of meetings, managing yourself and others, and specific tools to use:
- Communicate clearly about yourself. Know your working style and your communication styles, not so that others can alter theirs to fit and work nicely with yours, but so that you can think about how that information meshes with or is different than the people you work with. If you know that someone's working style or communication style is very different from yours, it'll involve more thought and effort to ensure that you're enabling them to be as successful as possible without specific "styles" or approaches getting in the way.
- Keep a "cheat sheet". I have maybe the worst memory ever and I find it's even worse as my plate gets more full. I keep a cheat sheet on folks so I remember things like their partner's name or kids names, their likes and dislikes, etc. It helps me connect more with them and helps when i'm trying to get a special treat for them for great work they've done.
- Try to message folks at key times. Often times folks are slightly more interruptible at the beginning or end of their workday, or when you see them chatting. If you need something, try to message them about these times so you're not taking them out of their flow. Make liberal use of the ability to schedule messages you send on slack.